---
layout: post
title: "Day 6: CSS for Beginners, by Net Ninja (Part 4)" 
date: 2016-11-28
categories: CSS
---

**Video 40: Borders**

- Part of the box model, inbetween margin and padding.
- Three value: width; style; color.
- Long-hand method:

    border-top-width: 10px;
    border-top-style: solid;
    border-top-color: blue;

- Short-hand method:

    border-top: 10px solid blue;

- Shorter short-hand method:

    border: 10px solid blue;

- Dotted, double, groove, inset, outset, and ridge have to be thick in order to see the difference

**Video 41: Block-Level Elements**  

- Span tags are an inline element.
- Inline elements sit in a line rather than taking up an entire block. Margin is only applied to left and right, not to the top and bottom. 
- You can change the display type setting, making a div in line or a span block, by setting the display: setting

    .block{
        display: inline;
    }

    .inline{
        display: block;
    }

- If you set display to inline-block then they will obey margin and adding properties like block elements, but still stack horizontally like an inline element.

- This inline-block style can be demonstrated in a nav bar:
{% highlight HTML %}
                <a href="#">link</a>
                <a href="#">link</a>
                <a href="#">link</a>
                <a href="#">link</a>
                <a href="#">link</a>                                           
                <a href="#">link</a>
                <a href="#">link</a>

{% endhighlight %}
{% highlight CSS %}
            
                a{
                    padding: 10px;
                    margin: 10px;
                    background: #ccc;
                    border: 1px solid #aaa;
                    color: black;
                    text-decoration: none;
                    display: inline-block;
                }
{% endhighlight %}

**Video 42: Width and Height**  

- This video covers the differences between static-width, percentage-width, and inline-block.
- Percentage width is better than static width for responsive designs.

**Video 43: Rounded Corners**  

- Going clockwise, border-radius begins in the top-left:

       border-radius: 5px 10px 20px 40px;

- If you only use two values, the first value will affect the top-left and bottom-right, the second will affect the top-right and bottom-left. 

        border-radius: 5px 20px;

- border-radius: 50%; will create a circle. 

**Video 44: Backgrounds**  

- Most common background properties: 
    1. background-color: blue;
    2. background-image: url(*example_url*);
    3. background-repeat: no-repeat; if you don't want the image to repeat. 
       - background-repeat: round; makes sure that it's not cut off at the edges.
    4. background-postition: center; will center the image.
        - you can use keywords: right; bottom; left; top. These will control the position. 
        - background-position: bottom right; would position in the image in the bottom right. 
            - you can also pass percentages and pixels. 
    5. background-size: 200px; sets background the size of the background image to 200px. 

**Video 45: Background Shorthand**  

- background: url no-repeat coordinate1 coordinate 2;

    background: url(https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/993504415/css_400x400.png) no-repeat top center;

- background-color should be put separately below the background so that it provites a background color and isn't overridden.
- The same goes for background-size. 

        .static-width{
            width: 300px;
            height: 300px;
            background: url(https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/993504415/css_400x400.png) no-repeat center center;
            background-color: #606060;
            background-size: 200px;
        }


**Video 46: Multiple Backgrounds**  

- To use multiple background images, you would use: 

    background-image: url(imageUrl1), url(imageUrl2);

- Example: 

        #banner {
            background-color: #606060;
            width: 100%;
            height: 250px;
            background-image: url(https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/993504415/css_400x400.png), url(http://arvtechnologies.in/assets/media/750x480/4.png);
            background-repeat: no-repeat;
            background-position: center, top left;
            background-size: 300px, 100%;
        }

**Video 47: Color**  

- Hex code: six numbers/letters, in three sets of two. The two-digit numbers correspond to Red, Green, and Blue, respectively. 
- Numbers range from 0-9, and a-f (f being the lightest, 0 being the darkest).
    - #000000: black
    - #005000: greenish
    - #000050: bluish
    - #ffffff: white  

- RGB: background-color: rgb(00, 00, 00);
- Numbers go up to 255, so rgb(255, 255, 255); is white. 

**Video 48: Opacity** 

- passing opacity value, 0 is completely opaque and 1 is completely solid

{% highlight CSS %} 
    #circle{
    width: 400px;
    height: 400px;
    position: absolute;
    background: rgb(200,200,100);
    border-radius: 200px;
    top: 50px;
    left: 50px;
    opacity: .5;
}
{% endhighlight %}

- If we don't want the text within the container to be opaque, we can pass another alpha channel to the rgb function. 
    rgba(x,x,x, 0.1);
- This isn't fully supported prior to IE9.

**Video 49: Gradients** 

- A transition from one color to another color (light to dark, for example). 
- It's a newer feature of CSS, so it requries vendor prefixes.

{% highlight CSS %}

    background: #aadddd; /*fallback background color*/
    background: -moz-linear-gradient(top, #aadddd 0%, #77aaaa 100%); /* Mozilla Prefix */
    background: -webkit-linear-gradient(top, #aadddd 0%, #77aaaa 100%); /* Webkit Prefix */
    background: linear-gradient(top, /*runs from top to bottom*/ 
                                #aadddd 0%, /*starting color #aadddd starts at the very top 0% */
                                #77aaaa 100% /*ending color #77aaaa ends at the very bottom 100% */
                                );
{% endhighlight %}

- Gradient generator: http://www.colorzilla.com/gradient-editor 

**Video 50: Box Shadow**  

- Gives an element a shadow to create depth. 
- first values that we pass are horizontal and vertical position values, with positive values going to the right and the bottom.
- Next value affects blurriness.
- fourth value is the spread, ie. how much you want it to be blurred out.
- last value supplied to the property is the color. 

{% highlight CSS %} 
    box-shadow: 2px 2px 4px 2px rgba(40, 40, 40, 0.6);

{% endhighlight %}

- Box-shadow generator: http://www.cssmatic.com/box-shadow

**Video 51: Browser Support**  

- Fallback Options

{% highlight CSS %}
.rule{
    background: #fff;
    background: linear-gradient(top, blue 0%, red 100%);
}

{% endhighlight %}

- http://caniuse.com will show what features are available in certain browsers. Also shows global useage percentages. 

- http://pleeease.io/play will provide vendor prefix codes. 

- modernizr is a javascript library that detects HTML5 and CSS3 features and uses javascript to provide features if necessary.
