---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1 Code"
date:   2017-1-15
categories: TypeScript, PluralSight
---

// Example
let ourName: string;

// Define myName below this line
let myName: string;

/***********Replace First Letter of a String ----------
*/

// Example
let firstLetterOfFirstName: string = "";
let firstName: string = "Ada";
firstLetterOfFirstName = firstName[0];
// Setup
let firstLetterOfLastName: string = "";
let lastName: string = "Lovelace";
// Only change code below this line
firstLetterOfLastName = lastName[0];


/*************Replace Last Letter of a String ----------
*/

// Example
let firstName: string = "Ada";
let lastLetterOfFirstName: string = firstName[firstName.length - 1];

// Setup
let lastName: string = "Lovelace";

// Only change code below this line.
let lastLetterOfLastName: string = lastName[lastName.length - 1];



/* Use Bracket Notation to Find the Nth-to-Last Character in a String 
*/

// Example
let firstName: string = "Ada";
let thirdToLastLetterOfFirstName: string = firstName[firstName.length - 3];

// Setup
let lastName: string = "Lovelace";

// Only change code below this line
let secondToLastLetterOfLastName: string = lastName[lastName.length -2];



/* Word Blanks 
*/

function wordBlanks(myNoun: string, myAdjective: string, myVerb: string, myAdverb: string): string {
  let result = "";
  // Your code below this line
  result = "The " + myAdjective + " " + myNoun + " " + myVerb + " " + myAdverb + ".";

  // Your code above this line
  return result;
}

// Change the words here to test your function
wordBlanks("cat", "small", "sat", "still");



/* Store Multiple Values in one Variable using JavaScript Arrays
 * First big stumbling block. How to best deal with Arrays in Typescript? 
 */
// Example
//var ourArray = ["John", 23];
let ourArray: Array<any> = ["John", 23];
// Only change code below this line.
let myArray: Array<any> = ["Jake", 33];



/**************************Nest one Array within Another Array
 */

let ourArray: any[] = [["the universe", 42], ["everything", 101010]];

// Only change code below this line.
let myArray: any[] = [["the earth", 12], ["the moon", 13]];


/*********************Access Array Data with Indexes
 */
// Example
//var ourArray = [1,2,3];
//var ourData = ourArray[0]; // equals 1

/* First Attempt

let ourArray: Array<number> = [1,2,3];
let ourData: Array<number> = ourArray[0];

// Setup
let myArray: Array<number> = [1,2,3];

// Only change code below this line.
//Create a variable called myData and set it to equal the first value of myArray using bracket notation.
let myData: Array<number> = myArray[0];

/*  Resulted in error:
 *      fcc.ts(7,5): error TS2322: Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'number[]'.
 *      fcc.ts(14,5): error TS2322: Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'number[]'.
*/

let ourArray: any[] = [1,2,3];
let ourData: any[] = ourArray[0];

// Setup
let myArray: any[] = [1,2,3];

// Only change code below this line.
//Create a variable called myData and set it to equal the first value of myArray using bracket notation.
let myData: any[] = myArray[0];

/**********************************************************************************************************    
 *  STUDY  POINT *
 *****************
 *The code works using any instead of number. I'll have to do some research to try to determine why.
 **********************************************************************************************************/

 
/* Modify Array Data With Indexes
 */

// Example
let ourArray: number[] = [1,2,3];
ourArray[1] = 3; // ourArray now equals [1,3,3].

// Setup
let myArray: number[] = [1,2,3];

// Only change code below this line. 

/* Access MultiDimensional Arrays With Indexes
 * 
 * Using bracket notation select an element from myArray such that myData is equal to 8.
 *
 * *************
 * STUDY POINT *
 * ************* 
 * I initially tried myArray: number[][] 
 * It threw the error: "Type '(number | number[])[][]' is not assignable to type 'number[]'."
 * It worked after changing it to (number | number[])[][]
 * I need to improve at using Type Guards in my code.
 */

let myArray: (number | number[])[][] = [[1,2,3], [4,5,6], [7,8,9], [[10,11,12], 13, 14]];

// Only change code below this line.
let myData: (number | number []) = myArray[2][1];

/* Manipulate Arrays With push
 *
 * Push ["dog", 3] onto the end of the myArray variable
 * This worked more or less as I expected
 */

// Example

let ourArray: any[] = ["Stimpson", "J", "cat"];
ourArray.push(["happy", "joy"]);
// ourArray now equals ["Stimpson", "J", "cat", ["happy", "joy"]]

// Setup
let myArray: any[] = [["John", 23], ["cat", 2]];
myArray.push(["dog", 3]);

/* Manipulate Arrays With pop
 *
 * Use the .pop() function to remove the last item from myArray, 
 * assigning the "popped off" value to removedFromMyArray.
 * 
 * I figured out that this type of type gaurding (shown in the example) seems 
 * to solve the "Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'number[]'" error.
 * That makes sense.
 * 
 */

// Example
let ourArray: (number | number[]) = [1,2,3];
let removedFromOurArray: (number | number[]) = ourArray.pop(); 
// removedFromOurArray now equals 3, and ourArray now equals [1,2]

// Setup
let myArray: Array<any> = [["John", 23], ["cat", 2]];

// Only change code below this line.
let removedFromMyArray: Array<any> = myArray.pop();

/* Manipulate Arrays With shift
 *
 * Use the .shift() function to remove the first item from myArray, 
 * assigning the "shifted off" value to removedFromMyArray.
 * 
 */

// Example
let ourArray: (string | string[])[] = ["Stimpson", "J", ["cat"]];
let removedFromOurArray: (string | string[]) = ourArray.shift();
// removedFromOurArray now equals "Stimpson" and ourArray now equals ["J", ["cat"]].

// Setup
let myArray: any[] = [["John", 23], ["dog", 3]]; // This seems like it would be better with Type Gaurding

// Only change code below this line.
let removedFromMyArray: any[] = myArray.shift();

/* Manipulate Arrays With unshift
 *
 * Add ["Paul",35] to the beginning of the myArray variable using unshift().
 * 
 */

// Example
let ourArray: string[] = ["Stimpson", "J", "cat"];
ourArray.shift(); // ourArray now equals ["J", "cat"]
ourArray.unshift("Happy"); 
// ourArray now equals ["Happy", "J", "cat"]

// Setup
let myArray: any[] = [["John", 23], ["dog", 3]];
myArray.shift();
myArray.unshift(["Paul", 35]);

/* Shopping List
 *
 * Create a shopping list in the variable myList. 
 * The list should be a multi-dimensional array containing several sub-arrays.
 * 
 * The first element in each sub-array should contain a string with 
 * the name of the item. The second element should be a number representing the quantity i.e.
 *  ["Chocolate Bar", 15]
 *
 * There should be at least 5 sub-arrays in the list.
 * 
 */

let myList: (any | any[]) = [["Pizza", 2], ["Burgers", 7], ["Coke", 1], ["Milk", 1], ["Eggs", 2]];