---
layout: post
title:  "Day 1 Notes"
date:   2017-1-15
categories: TypeScript, PluralSight
---


# Getting Started
## Code Hierarchy
1. Module/Namespace
2. Class
3. Fields, Constructor, Properties, Functions

- Classes can also implement Interfaces

## Summary
- Key Features: 
    - Code encapsulation
    - Type Support
- Supports multiple tools: 
    - Node.js
    - Many text editors
    - Visual Studio and other IDEs. 

# Typing Variables, and Functions

## Grammar, Declarations, and Annotations
- var num = 2;
    - In typescript, unlike in javascript, num is automatically assumed to be a number and is type-checked.
    - This is an example of Type Inference.
- var num: number = 2;
    - the semicolon annotation allows you to declare var num as type number.
- var any1; 
    - defaults to type: any
- var str1 = num1 + 'some string';
    - Because str1 isn't declared as a number, str1 will convert it to type string.

- Suggested method of declaring variables is: var num2: number = 2;

- You can bootstrap everything together by wrapping it in an init function definition

{% highlight ts %}
init : (s: string, p: string, c: string) => void 
    = function (startButton, pauseButton, clearButton)
    {
        code.get(startButton);
        code.get(pauseButton);
        code.get(clearButton);
        displayTimer();
};
{% endhighlight %}

- This declares what the function is of type (three parameters of type string and returning a void). 

## Dynamic vs. Static
- TypeScript: Type safety is a compile-time feature.
- JavaScript: Type safety is a run-time feature.

## Ambient Declarations
- Used to pull in code from libraries and maintain types.
    - declare var document;
- libraries can downloaded from https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped
    - Can then be used via Ambient Declarations
    
## Any type and Primitives
- any is the base default type.
- Primitive types
    - number
    - boolean
    - string
    - Arrays and Indexers
    - null
        - subtype of all primitives except void and undefined
    - undefined
        - "var quantity: number;" is undefined because it hasn't been defined
        - "var company = undefined;" is also undefined
        - undefined is a subtype of all types

## Applying Types
- 

## Objects
- Functions, class, module, interface, and literal types
- May contain:
    - Properties
        - Public or private
        - Required or optional
    - Call signatures
    - Construct signatures
    - Index signatures
- Important operators
    - => (arrow function...indicates return value?)
    - ? (optional parameter)

## Functions
- Parameter types (required and optional)
- Arrow Function Expressions
    - Compact form of function Expressions
    - Omit the function keyword
    - Have scope of "this"
    - Like lambda's in other languages.
- Void 
    - Used as the return type for functions that return no value

#### Arrow Function Expressions

```
var myFunc = function (h: number, w: number) {
    return h*w;
};

var myFunc = h: number, w: number) => h*w;
```
- These two pieces of code are the same, but the arrow function allows us to omit the return statement and function keyword.
- Both functions compile to the same javascript

#### Void
- Used as the return type for functions with no return value
```
var greetMe : (messg: string) => void;

greetMe = function (msg) {
    console.log(msg);
}

greetMe('Hello!');
```

## Arrow Functions and Debugging

## Functions and Interfaces

## Summary
- Emits JavaScript
- Optional static typing 
    - Various types
- Compile time checking 
- Ambient Declarations for external references
    - Use with typings (*.d.ts files)
        - Definition Files
        - https://jpapa.me/typings
- Objects and functions
    - Parameter types (required and optional)
    - Arrow function Expressions
- Interfaces
